>>With the price of energy and
gas inching skyward by the day,
it seems that we're
finally motivated
to look at the
alternatives, as witnessed
by the six-month to one
year wait for hybrid cars.
Fortunately, some people have
been ahead of the game, decades
ahead.
Reinhold Ziegler is
one of those people
who has made it
his life to develop
non-polluting renewable energy
sources for both domestic use
and abroad.
As you'll learn, the US
is way behind the curve
because it seems that we only
respond to crisis before we're
willing to change.
But better late than never.
Let's begin with talking
to you a little bit
about your historical
path that has gotten you
to this point of becoming
a renewable energy expert.
>>Mm-hm.
Well, essentially it
started for me-- I
was a science major, physics
engineering major in college,
and I really couldn't quite
figure out at the time
why I was solving
all these problems.
It seemed like I was the biggest
problem that I had to work on.
So we did a lot of initial work
with conventional engineering
projects, and then I met a
group of people in Berkeley
and we began to put together
the first Integral Urban House.
This is the Farallones
Institute 1976, '77.
And so we put together a
house that was completely
powered by the sun the wind.
And we had a beehive
in the building
that the bees would fly out
to the rest of neighborhood,
collect all the honey,
bring it back to our house.
We'd have gardens,
biodynamic gardens.
We'd have integrated
pest management.
So if there were
any aphids, we'd
bring in ladybugs who would
get rid of the aphids.
And just-- where there was
concrete, we had strawberries.
It was the first time
that we had put together
all the talent of creating
a house that was completely
self-reliant, powered
by the sun and the wind,
with fish growing in the
backyard and chickens
in the chicken
coops, and rabbits.
And so, it created
a collaboration
that has been going
on for around 25 years
now to build self-sustaining
life support systems.
And there's a tremendous
amount of good news
coming from that work.
>>So here we are, almost
30 years down the road
from that time, and
now your backyard
has stretched overseas to doing
very large joint endeavors
with the Chinese even.
>>Mm-hm.
>>And so between those
two points in history,
tell me about the evolution
of some of these technologies
that you were working
with back in 1976,
and where they are
today, and how close
they are to being rolled out.
It would seem that 30
years is a long time.
Logically, it seems
that we should
be seeing some of
this in use right now.
But we're not.
>>It's definitely emerged.
If I can describe a few
of the components of it.
Certainly, photovoltaics,
which was about $1,000 a watt
in 1976.
>>This is solar power
you're talking about?
>>Electricity from
direct sunlight
was used for satellites.
It was very expensive
at that time.
Over the years, we've
had major breakthroughs
to where now the
cost of photovoltaics
is down at around $3 a watt.
From $1,000 a watt to $3 a watt.
>>Then why aren't we
seeing more of it?
Or is that a separate question
we should get into a little bit
later?
>>We are definitely
seeing more of it,
and I will provide you examples.
A lot of the states have
provided incentive programs
to buy down the cost
of photovoltaics.
California, Nevada,
Texas, New York,
if you buy a photovoltaic
power system,
you will be rebated by
the state for the cost
of the photovoltaics.
So the photovoltaics
are, in effect,
paid for by the rate payers.
So photovoltaics has come
a tremendously long way.
Right now, all of our
photovoltaics have been
purchased by Germany
because in Germany,
if you produce
power from the sun,
you are paid $0.50
a kilowatt hour.
>>Amazing.
>>So a great incentive
that Germany has in place.
And so, photovoltaics is
going through miraculous turns
right now as we have finally
gone to war over oil.
So now the clock
is really ticking.
Wind energy, a very
ancient source of power.
There are-- I mean,
I could tell you
stories about how,
for example, Holland,
which was a terribly
barren place in Europe
with just the winds
of the North Sea
blowing down on this country.
This little country developed
the first wind machines
in Europe.
And with it, began to have
the first windmills, which
in effect were used.
The giant band saws that
were cutting up the lumber.
Logs that were flowing down from
the Rhine River, from the Alps,
were cut up into
more wind machines.
So the would machines were
reproducing themselves.
And also the making
of ships, which
were the Dutch, the East
India Company, all those ships
were made from wind machines.
And then, the Dutch millwrights
went to the bankers and said,
we have an incredible idea.
And they said, what is it?
They said, we know
how to increase
the size of the
country because we're
going to pump out all the
lakes and all the-- we're
going to pump out the
ocean of our country,
and increase the
size of our country.
So they received
immediate financing
from these very
successful groups,
and the bankers in Holland.
And then the final
experiment was
to put these prefabricated
wind machines made
from wind machines on ships
made from wind machines.
They then went to
the New World, set up
the wind machines
in Long Island,
and built New Amsterdam, which
is today's New York City.
>>New York City.
>>So it's a very
ancient technology.
Now where it's come to
about the turn of the 19th
through the 20th
century, about 1900,
the first wind
machines out of Denmark
were producing electricity.
And so over the
years, especially
with the-- what happened
was, the oil shocks
of the early '70s began
to create a great interest
in producing electricity
from the wind.
So in California, we were
the first modern wind machine
company called
Aero Power Systems
about the same time, 1978.
And then all of
a sudden, we were
inundated by limited
partnerships wanting
to build wind farms
in Altamont Pass.
And so we were the
first at Altamont
Pass to do the site surveys
and to plan the first machines.
Where we are at now is wind
machines, wind turbines,
are the most cost effective
of all renewable energy
machines and sources.
So we are now seeing tremendous
activity out of Germany,
which is the leader
right now, followed
by Spain, which is number
two, India, Greece.
Different parts of the world
where there is tremendous wind
resources are now
tapping into the wind.
So wind is the most
ready out of all of them.
>>Also, were they
not more motivated
because of the cost of
petroleum in those areas?
>>Oh, yes.
You know, when you're paying
$4.50 a gallon it becomes very
interesting to begin
to use renewables.
You bet.
>>Now, wind energy in its
history in the United States,
this isn't new to
the United States.
When you look across
the Great Plains,
wind technology was
used in the earlier
part of the 20th
century certainly,
but what happened and
basically eliminated wind power
from the plains and other
areas in the United States?
>>Well, it started
out that they say
that the West was settled by
three and four ingredients.
Certainly barbed wire, Colt
.45s, wind pumpers, and women,
I would say, helped
settle the west.
And there was some 12
million water pumpers
in use since the 1860s.
And then right
around the 1920s, we
began to see the likes
of the Jacobs brothers,
Marcellus Jacobs, were carving
high-speed propeller impeller
blades in South Dakota.
And then companies
like Winco came along,
small wind machine
companies that
began to produce
electricity on the prairies
for the first time.
It was so prolific that
when Philco Radio came along
and the first radio stations
came out of St. Louis,
because there was no
power for the customers,
Philco Radio and RCA would just
give people a wind generator
to go with their radio so they
could listen to their radio.
[REGINA LAUGHS]
So here was wireless
technology--
>>Certainly a creative
partnership, yes.
>>You know, wireless
radio transmission
was, in effect, bringing
the first information
from St. Louis out
into the Missouri
hills and the prairies.
The first radio out of
Chicago and St. Louis
was then broadcast and
received by those early farmers
out there in the
whole revolution
of radio, which is
another major story.
Then with the advent of
the Rural Electrification
Administration
through FDR, 1930s,
there was an effort to go out
to those rural communities
and to begin to bring
in the power grid.
So the plan basically was,
by the Rural Development
Administration, to bring
electricity and power
to those remote and rural areas.
And so their pitch
was, you will now
be able to participate
in civilization.
We're going to light
up the main streets,
we're going the light
up all the country
lanes that are in the darkness.
And all we ask is that
you have five appliances.
And if you have
five appliances, we
will give you a free hook up.
You'll have to pay
for the energy,
but the hook up is free.
So a lot of farmers
who, at that time,
had small wind generators on
their farms got a hook up.
They thought, oh, this is great.
We'll get a washing machine,
the wife will like that.
I'll have some electricity for
threshing machines, toasters,
and the radio, of
course, which was
sort of the main cultural
piece in the house,
and they began to get hooked up.
And so the irony of the
story is in many cases,
and we've interviewed
these farmers,
they would say that after
they were hooked up,
the REA would come
back and say, listen,
now that you're hooked up
to civilization you really
won't need that wind
generator anymore.
Why don't you knock
it off it's towers?
Why don't you-- or take it down.
And then they would say, well,
we kind of like it, you know.
They say, well, you're not
going to need it anymore.
So a lot of machines, I
would say tens of thousands
of machines, were
taken off their tower
or knocked off
the tower and laid
in those fields
for some 30 years
until the '70s, when
we went back out there
and bought the Jacobs
generators, which
were like the Cadillac of
wind machines at that time.
And then in the late '70s,
we began to refurbish those.
And our group actually,
we had the privilege
of working with the
Jacobs brothers, who
taught us everything they
knew as we began to make wind
powered alternators, A/C
generating alternators.
And a lot of what we learned
came from the Jacobs brothers.
>>So you made a business of
recovering these old machines
and then, like you say,
refurbishing them and then
putting them back up in--
where were they utilized?
Were they used primarily
in-- did you bring them back
to California or where
were they utilized?
>>We had a factory in
Berkeley, Aero Power Systems,
and we did renovate
the machines.
We also immediately went on
to some of the breakthroughs
that have happened.
These were generators
so they had brushes,
which had to be re-machined,
and so we went on
to creating new aluminum
castings for alternators, which
are A/C producing
alternating current
that have electronic circuits.
So we were the first to
use modern voltage control
circuits on these generators.
And also had an extensive blade
company and blade manufacturer,
so we redo the governors
and the blade assemblies
for harnessing the
energy in the wind.
>>Before we go on to
what's happened since then,
because the new
technology in wind power
looks considerably different
from the old windmills,
let's talk about
some other modalities
and then we'll come back to
the advances in the technology.
We've talked about
photovoltaics,
we've talked about wind,
what about tidal power
from the ocean's waves?
>>Sure.
It turns out that water is
800 times as dense as air.
So in a machine, a wind
machine-- if you placed a wind
machine in a river,
for example, you
would get effectively
25 times the output as
if it was in the wind.
That's an effective output.
So a little 500 watt
wind machine in the water
would produce 12,500 watts.
And we've documented that.
So certainly, current turbines
are extremely attractive.
There are a variety of formats
being tested and tried right
now, a lot of them in England--
radioactivity in England.
And there's some
talk in the Bay Area
of harnessing the tidal flows
that flow underneath the Golden
Gate Bridge, and its massive.
I mean, the energy in the water
could power all of our energy
needs several times over.
>>Has this technology
been developed
to the point of usefulness?
>>Yeah.
>>Is it already there?
Is it patented?
Is it ready to go?
>>There are patents.
There have been demonstration
projects over the years,
both in the Hudson River.
There been some attempts
to harness the Gulf Stream.
Several river experiments.
My first information on
this came from a project
to harness the Nile,
to basically pump
water over the Nile.
To use an underwater wind
machine, water machine,
to lift water over the
dyke into the Sudan.
So those-- it's
been accomplished.
And what it's coming
down to now is
what is the right
economy of scale,
and should we harness
water directly?
Because it is a
tremendous thrust force.
The weight of the water, the
mass of that flowing water
can overturn any
kind of structure.
So we've been looking at using
compressed air, for example.
Creating underwater
venturis and creating-- I
mean the air be drawn
into some air turbines
as an easier way
of dealing with it.
The machine that I've been
working with basically
uses hydraulics, so we have
no electricity under water,
everything is above water.
But we're creating
hydraulic pressure,
which then runs hydraulic
motors and hydraulic generation
of electricity.
>>So now let's go
on to another issue,
because we're
just-- we're looking
at the needs of the future.
We're going to need
clean renewable energy.
We have major issues with the
environment and the greenhouse
effect, et cetera, so we need
a clean source of energy.
We're looking at wind, we're
looking at hydraulic power.
What do you call it?
Tidal power?
What is the term for this
whole genre of technology?
Tidal power?
>>Yeah.
It's tidal power
or current turbines
or hydropower, which is
where you would lift water
or accumulate
water behind a dam.
And there are now better
solutions than building dams,
because the result
of building dams
is you lay waste to a tremendous
amount of land behind the dam.
We now can do ambient
turbines that are in rivers
and extract the water
out of the river,
run it through a turbine,
put it back into the river.
We're just removing
the energy of that.
And hydropower is, in
effect, gravity energy.
It's based on the gravity.
>>So we're looking at power
sources through the sun,
through the wind, through water.
Another issue is becoming
fresh water supplies,
clean and fresh water supplies.
Globally this is an issue.
What about progress in the area,
for example, of desalinization?
>>Mm-hm.
Certainly.
I would also mention
one more energy source
that is equally
interesting and important,
and that is the internal
combustion engine.
We now have fuels that
are incredibly clean.
I mean, it involves
combustion, which
is what we're trying
to get away from,
but we now have
biodiesel, for example.
>>Can you talk about
biodiesel for a moment?
>>Certainly.
Biodiesel allows
us to make diesel
from biomass, which can grow on
the millions of acres of land
that are just being unutilized.
When you drive through
the west some time,
you just drive-through millions
of acres of unused land.
We could easily plant canola,
or what's called rapeseeds.
These are like mustard seed.
They're yellow flowers,
very attractive.
We could extract some 2,000 to
3,000 kilograms per acre of oil
from these plants, and we could
feed the rest to the animals.
The animals would still
eat the residue of that.
Canola oil, and make
it into biodiesel.
We also breakthrough
technologies now using plasma
plugs, plasma spark
plugs, where we are now
running micro turbines or
rotary engine turbines, which
only have one moving
part and have no valves,
where we can run the engine
on 60% water and 40% alcohol.
And we're actually making the
hydrogen inside the engine,
and then combusting it.
>>You said this is
a micro generator?
>>Micro generator.
Very, very important.
>>Give us an example of the
scale of this micro generation
unit, and what its output
is in practical terms.
>>Sure.
It's basically a rotary engine.
It has no pistons and
has a continuing rotating
Lundell in the center.
And the engine is
about 50 horsepower.
And attached to it
with a direct drive,
one shaft, one
piece of rotation,
is a 35-kilowatt generator using
neodymium magnets from China.
So these are very high-density
magnetic generators.
The entire package is
about two cubic feet.
I don't know if you've ever
seen a 35-kilowatt generator,
but it's as big as a room.
So it's all been
miniaturized down
into this really
tight little package,
and these are basically
the auxiliary power units
for the future
hybrid electric cars,
once we go industrial
with hybrid electric.
>>What's their
application right now?
What would they
power-- what are they
capable of powering in the
sense of our domestic lives?
>>Well, 35 kilowatts,
you know, a typical house
uses about 20 kilowatt
hours per day.
So with this
running, let's say it
runs for eight
hours, that would be
around-- it could
power 10 houses.
And the fuel would be renewable
in that we can grow the fuel.
This is not fossil
fuel we're burning.
This is either alcohol we have
made from biomass or biodiesel
that we have grown.
>>So, in essence, what would
the cost be per kilowatt hour
compared to what we're
paying right now?
I'm just trying to
get a real, down home
look at what this means in
this tiny little two cubic foot
device.
>>The cost would be
certainly probably
on the level of a wind machine.
A wind machine, the
capital cost right now
is $1 a watt for large turbines.
It's more like $2 a watt
for smaller scale machines.
So let's say you wanted a
10,000 watt wind machine.
That would cost around $20,000.
>>Mm-hm.
>>A 35-kilowatt device as
I'm talking about this micro
turbine, would be probably
on the level of $0.50 a watt.
The beauty of the
renewables, of course,
is that the device costs money,
but there's no fuel cost.
With the micro turbine,
there's some fuel costs.
But certainly affordable,
very affordable.
We just need to
manufacture these now.
>>And that technology
already exists?
The patents are there and
this is tried and true?
>>Yes.
>>This has huge applications
then for rural areas
in particular, it
would sound like.
>>Exactly.
One of the-- I'll get
back to your question
about the other
sources of power,
but what's basically happened
is the paradigm shift
is this, as far as renewables.
And it's comparable
to the internet.
The internet is a very unique
communications technology
in that it's now possible to
have two-way communication.
The previous form
of communication
was de facto
communication where you'd
have a transmitter
that would send out
the information via
television or whatever,
and then everybody
would be a receiver.
There was no way to talk back.
And so in the internet,
you have what's
called an asynchronous
adapter, which
allows for two-way
communication protocol.
Well, in the energy
field, we have
the same type of technology.
The previous paradigm
was that energy
was produced in a
centralized power plant
and then sent out to the
customers through the grid.
Now it's possible for the
extremities of the grid,
for each house, to
power the center.
>>To feedback.
To send energy back to
the main power plant.
>>It certainly makes sense.
>>Using synchronous inverters.
So it's just exactly like
the internet, you know?
So the future of
energy is not going
to be more nuclear power
plants, more centralized gas
and oil-fired power
plants, but millions
of micro generators
in homes and offices
co-producing energy
with the grid
and feeding it back,
and getting paid for it.
>>And it sounds as though
certainly the benefits of this
would be virtually no pollution.
>>Certainly.
The other aspect of this whole--
the business of the whole thing
is when we do a wind
farm, we basically
are selling our energy through
a power purchase agreement.
You know, in China we're selling
it for $0.07 a kilowatt hour.
In the Philippines
it's $0.11 a kilowatt.
In California it's
$0.049 cents a kilowatt.
This is the value of
our energy as we sell it
on the wholesale level
back to the power grid.
We also will get paid
through greenhouse credits,
through green tags, about
$0.018 cents per kilowatt hour.
In other words, we're going to
get rewarded for sequestering
carbon dioxide,
nitrogen dioxide,
so that we are receiving
credits for pollution
that we are not producing
through these technologies.
And that's a really
important part
to the story, the green tags.
>>Very important
part to the story.
Just maybe quickly
touch on the notion
of clean water and
desalinization--
>>Yes.
>>-technology at this point
in time before we go back
to the larger issue.
>>Definitely.
As we look at the planet,
we have a surprising amount
of very little fresh
water resources.
And this has been aggravated
by the fact and the invention
of the flush toilet.
So basically, every time
somebody goes to the bathroom,
we are flushing some five
gallons of our drinking water
to the sewage plant.
And then we go
through great expense
to clean up what is a
mistake in the first place.
We're coming out of an
era where our gasoline has
been cheaper than drinking
water, quite a bit cheaper
than drinking water.
And so now we're
at the point where
water may become more precious
than our fossil fuels.
We already have drawn down
the aquifers in the Midwest.
We need to seriously look
at desalinating seawater.
We have municipalities
like Littleton, Colorado,
drinking their sewage water,
which has been cleaned.
Again, a mistake.
That's a very costly mistake
to use our drinking supplies.
And some of the technologies
for desalinating seawater
have involved osmotic membranes,
and very energy intensive.
It takes a lot of energy
to do it this way.
And so now, there are all
kinds of new technologies
like, for example, ultrasonics.
The ultrasonic
desalinization of water,
where the salt
crystals are actually
removed ultrasonically,
they precipitate out.
There's now talk about
structured water,
as a way to really enhance
the quality of water.
Water is-- we know very
little about water,
even though about
95% of us is water.
So these are all
the applications.
I have been focusing on the
development of renewable energy
technologies and what really
drives it now, and always has,
is the application.
Once we produce energy
in a remote area, wow,
we can desalinate seawater.
We can pump water, we
can do all those tasks
that have to be done
that require electricity.
Electricity is the
preferred form of power.
It has no entropy.
It doesn't degrade.
It doesn't run out of a wire.
It's the preferred form
of power on the planet.
>>So what's stopping us then?
All these technologies
you've talked about,
save for perhaps
some of the last bits
on the desalinization,
are already present,
they're already functional.
The patents,
[INAUDIBLE] are there.
>>Mm-hm.
>>Why are we not
seeing more of this?
Most of the people watching
this have probably never heard
of most of it, and certainly
have never seen it in use.
Why?
>>Well, it's the nature of how
our financial entrepreneurial
system works, you know.
I mean, fact one, most of
the innovations on the planet
are coming from
groups of people,
anywhere from two
to seven people.
More innovations are
coming from the companies
of that scale than
large corporations.
There's a tremendous
amount of effort
to wait till a company is
established and has a product,
and then it's bought
by a larger company.
That's constant.
That happens all the time.
>>What do they do, shelve it?
Why aren't we seeing it?
>>It's basically--
it's a market problem.
You have to demonstrate
that you have a market.
I mean, first of all, let me
give you a perspective on what
it takes to develop
a new idea, OK?
There are millions of new ideas.
But the difference
between having an idea
and actually getting it
realized in the world,
there is a huge gulf,
a no-man's land really,
between having an idea and then
going to your wife or family
and saying, look, I need
to develop this idea.
This is going to
change the world.
I'm going to make lots of money.
So I want to borrow money
from the family to do this.
I need to create a prototype.
And then even once the prototype
is created, how are you
going to get it marketed?
How are you going
to raise money?
Most inventors at that
point don't have it.
>>They're tapped out.
>>They're tapped out, and they
don't have the business skills.
They're innovators.
And so what's needed
is a group of people
that can kind of incubate that
idea, and at the same time
that an idea is being developed,
do some market research,
see is there even a
need for this device,
because a lot of
people invent things
where there's no market for it.
It's just nifty,
it's a nifty thing.
So our group is
basically market driven.
We have one foot
in the marketplace
and so we know that if we
develop a water desalination
device for remote
areas of the world,
we have a massive market.
We can demonstrate that.
So that's the problem.
It's just we have been very
comfortable in our lifestyles.
Our energy supplies
have been based
on liquid fuel, a
fossil fuel that
is found in some very remote
and politically unstable
areas of the world.
We are coming to the peak oil.
Some say it's already
happened, this is the peak.
From here on in, it's going
to get much, much harder
to find more fossil fuels.
These fossil fuels
are, in many cases,
in remote areas where very
unstable political situations,
thus our involvement in
the Mideast right now.
When at the same time, we have
the sun shining on our roofs
in the US.
We have the wind
blowing over our heads.
We have energy everywhere
available on the planet,
you know.
So our focus has just
been on centralized power
and the liquid-fueled economy.
And what's ahead of
us now is to produce
sustainable green technologies
that can be locally produced,
that tap into local power.
And that's what's
in front of us.
>>So up until now,
in essence, we
have not been motivated
to change the status quo.
How far away do you feel we
are from the average person
feeling motivated, I
mean, we're in a war,
we're sending your
kids over there.
Our gas prices are
rising by the moment.
How long before we're
comfortable enough
to, as consumers,
demand changes?
>>I think the innovations--
well, first of all,
we have city people
who are used to
an established infrastructure.
The roads, the electricity,
the gas lines, everything.
The food on the
shelves in the store.
You know, a vast distribution
system that works.
And let's hope none of
it ever breaks down.
If it breaks down,
the city people
are the first group in danger.
It'll be a bad discontinuity.
People in remote
areas of the world
already are aware of where
their energy comes from.
If you don't have
a wood pile, you're
going to freeze
through the winter.
So the remote power
market is really
what's driving this whole thing.
The people in the city
are just beginning
to look at co-generating
with the grid now.
There's been some talk about
doing community gardens, which
has been somewhat successful.
>>And successful in Europe.
And it has been traditionally
successful in other countries,
but we're just awakening to it.
>>Yeah.
We are all copying this
high-energy lifestyle,
and it's getting
us into trouble.
There was a time in
Europe in the 1880s when
the city of Paris
grew more food using
the French intensive method
on the rooftops of the city
that the city of Paris was
actually exporting food
to the countryside.
>>Absolutely amazing.
And all of that
is still possible.
>>Still possible.
>>It's an incredible
method of agriculture.
>>You know, you have to
stand in a very high place,
like in a high building,
and look down over the city
and see that the last
frontier is the rooftop.
The rooftop is the last
frontier for the city.
And so we're putting--
>>That's true.
We have potentials
for wind, for solar,
for agriculture, all of
this on the rooftops.
>>Mm-hm.
>>Interesting.
>>So we are approaching,
for example,
the city fathers right now of
Silicon Valley in Sunnyvale
and saying, look, we
would like to cover
the rooftops of Silicon
Valley with silicon,
semiconductor
photovoltaic panels.
And they're very interested.
Because also what we could do is
we could shift an industry that
was started on the
silicon chip, you know,
the computer field, can
now go on to the rooftops.
It would lead to the-- we
could produce jobs and keep
this innovation at home.
I mean, the US has produced
so many great breakthroughs
and then has transferred them
to other countries, Japan
or Europe.
And we have been the leader
in the photovoltaic area,
and even in wind, and
we need to employ it now
because so much of our
talent and resources
are being outsourced
to other countries
that unless we have some
manufacturing base in the US,
we're going to end up being
just a service economy.
A nation of pizza deliveries
and of video rental stores.
No economic base.
No manufacturing base at all.
So that's how I see it.
I look at the
rooftops of the city
and I see those
are all collectors.
We could just mount
them on the roof
and collect energy and
not worry about it.
So, yeah.
>>Let's take it a
step further and go
into the more
exotic technologies,
because some of these do exist.
>>Mm-hm.
>>What does our future look
like for what are casually
called, and sometimes literally
called, free energy devices?
>>Mm-hm.
So--
>>I know you're privy to
information across the board
when it comes to
technologies, and I
know some you're not
at liberty to share.
But for what you
can share, can you
tell us what lies ahead there?
Because that's where it
gets really exciting.
>>Right.
Well, let me first
say that I differ
from a lot of my colleagues in
the free energy field in that I
first have to say that all these
renewable energy devices are
free energy devices, OK?
The energy is free.
It really is.
We have not taxed
the sunshine yet,
and we've not taxed the wind.
Every country has 1,000 watts
of solar energy impinging
on the surface of any
surface on the planet.
With pollution, it's
down to about 800 watts.
So it's 800 watts
of solar energy
is available to
anybody one square
meter of solar radiation.
>>That said.
>>The energy is free, but the
devices to harness it are not,
OK?
So first of all, we have to say
that because even the devices
that employ free energy are
going to cost some money.
But they will tap into an
infinite amount of energy
and they'll work 24 hours a day.
>>Now, you're talking about
the alternative technologies
you've already discussed, or the
quote, "free energy" devices?
>>Yeah, I'm saying that
we have to be really
clear about the
word free energy.
>>Right.
>>And I just defined
why yes, it's free,
but the device to
harness it is not free.
>>Now the area that
we're talking about now,
define what that
means when we're
going into now maybe a little
more distant future, the more
exotic technologies.
>>OK.
The exotic
technologies basically
describe what was
described to us by Maxwell,
who was the originator of
electromagnetic theory.
And there is a kind of world
view that is three-dimensional,
we see it as a
three-dimensional world.
And so the original equations
for electromagnetic theory
had four components, not three.
It was four-dimensional,
it was Quaternary.
And over the years, we have
removed one of those elements
from the original equations
because it was not understood.
It was understood by
scientists like Nikola Tesla,
for example, and a few others
who began to see first of all,
it describes a whole other
way of looking at the world.
We are seeing--
it's like you can
see the world like a glass of
water that the glass of water
is either half
full or half empty.
It all depends on your
attitude about abundance.
And so it turns out if we use
the new vision of the world,
and the old vision
from Maxwell and Tesla,
there is no such
thing as empty space.
There's no such
Even this right here
is loaded, impinged,
saturated with electromagnetic
waves, magnetic fields,
everything you can imagine.
Perhaps different dimensions
are happening right now
in this space that
we call space.
So if we can see
that and we can see
that we can tap into what's
called the plenum, which
represents the space,
then we could literally
extract energy
directly from space.
That's sort of the
theoretical view on it, OK.
Operationally, what
we can do right away
is look at motors, OK,
motors and generators.
A motor is a generator.
When a generator runs, there's
an electromagnetic force
that is opposite to
what's happening.
So like if I take a
motor and I spin it
faster than it's
designed to run,
energy flows out of the motor.
And there are now some
harmonic circuits,
which have been
known for some time,
but they're now being
operationally put
into place where we can actually
get anywhere from 200 to 300
times the energy out of a
system that we're actually
putting into it.
So we might put 2
amps into a device
like this, a motor
generator device--
>>Get 600 back.
>>Correct.
And so--
>>Those are called
over-unity devices?
>>Over-unity, mm-hm.
And most things are
operating below unity.
Our inverter circuits, our
alternative energy circuits,
actually improve
what's called the power
factor of existing grids, so--
>>And there are devices like
this that already exist?
>>Yes.
>>And the interesting
part I find
is that wherever this
technology exists,
there seems to be a huge amount
of drama, secrecy, intrigue,
usually on the darker side.
>>Mm-hm.
>>It's as though there's
a vested interest
in these technologies never
seeing the light of day.
>>Mm-hm.
>>Why is this?
I mean, it seems
like a no-brainer,
but if you care to
take a stab at it,
why do you think this is?
>>There are definitely
vested interests.
There are vested interests
in the fossil fuel
economy, which is huge.
The power industry is
the biggest power trip
on the planet.
It really is.
And with the interlocking
of corporations
that have the capability
of taking over governments
with the military
industrial involvement,
these are major forces.
>>It seems these come to
bear upon the lone inventor
of these types of devices.
>>It's a different kind
of industry, you know.
The fossil fuel economy and
everything it represents
is centralized, it's
heavily controlled.
Everything is metered.
Everything is
carefully controlled.
And these other devices that
we've been talking about today
are decentralized.
They don't need any
kind of control.
Well, I'm saying there's no--
>>Don't need regulations.
>>No regulation, per se.
And so it threatens the
centralized power systems.
And what we have been doing
over the years is basically
building this partnership
through alternative energy
so that as we work with the
utility, we make it very clear,
gentlemen, we are
co-generating with you.
We're not trying to
take over this utility.
We are co-generating with you.
Look at us as your little
brothers and sisters.
>>Is this why you do
things in the manner
that you're doing it?
Take it steady, this is
the transitional period.
Is it going to require that the
same sociopolitical structure
that is vested in oil and
controls that industry,
are they going to
have to own all
the chips in the
new technologies
before we're ever
going to see it?
Or is there any way that
the people, the consumer
can demand this in such a way
that it gives a possibility
for the growth of these
exotic technologies,
even in the face of what
we understand the power
industry to be right now?
>>We were always hoping
that eventually we
could convince
Saudi Arabia, look,
you're only going
to have so much oil.
You only have so much
oil left, maybe enough
for another 20 years.
Then what?
You will have used it up.
Why not invest some of the oil
assets in alternative energies?
Now, we have
technologies where we
could re-green the
deserts of the world.
We can pull water
out of the air.
We could convert Saudi Arabia--
convert the sunshine that
falls on the Saudi
Arabian Desert to energy.
>>And this isn't sci-fi.
This technology exists.
>>Yeah.
And actually, a lot of
people took us up on it.
A lot of corporations
now have bought
the photovoltaic companies.
We have Royal Dutch Shell
bought Siemens solar division.
SolarX was bought by
British Petroleum,
or it's called
Beyond Petroleum, BP.
And several other purchases
have been by oil companies.
On the one hand,
you can look at that
as like, well, we're losing it.
I look at it more as, great,
I'm glad that the oil industries
are embracing these
renewable energy sources.
Perhaps they, through
their deep pockets,
can really drive the
price down because it's
been very expensive.
And we need to make
it really effective
so that anybody can afford it.
It's a little bit of both.
These other devices, these
exotic energy devices I think
are really going to change
the rules of the game.
>>How will they
make it out, though?
Let's put it this way.
What as consumers
can we do to see
that these technologies surface
and become available to us?
Can we do anything?
>>Actually from
the inside, whoever
has an idea for
producing power wins, OK?
We are so up against the wall.
The people who are the most
up against the wall right
now are the Japanese.
In Japan, they have
no natural resources.
They have no petroleum
whatsoever on their land,
so everything has to
be imported to them.
And from my sources,
I already know
that they are employing some
of these devices in their power
grid.
>>That's exciting.
>>They're totally embracing
the hydrogen economy.
They're saying,
yeah, hydrogen, sure.
But hydrogen is not a fuel.
Hydrogen has to be
made by some energy.
Is it going to be made
from fossil fuels or solar?
Are we going to
do solar hydrogen?
Are we going to do energy from
the wind or from-- you know,
it takes electricity
to make hydrogen.
>>Mm-hm.
>>And so I know that there are
already energy amplifiers being
employed that increase the
output of those existing power
plants for creating
the hydrogen economy.
I'm not sure how-- I think
the best-- I would say this.
Speaking for the consumers
for a minute, which we all
are, whenever you buy
something, whenever any of us
buy something, we cast a vote.
We cast a vote, we support some
company and their products.
And we should be selective
in what we spend our money on
and that's our vote.
If we support a company
that has bad labor policies
and uses slave labor
in China somewhere,
we are supporting that company.
We're supporting that action.
So I would say--
all we've ever said
is just buy some
of our products.
Buy some of these new
energy technologies.
They have warranties.
It's like, this is not
experimental any more.
These are UL approved.
Just get yourself to
be more self-reliant.
You can feel more
secure in your life
by knowing what you
spend your money on.
If you spend your
money on lousy food,
you're going to have an
expensive medical bill so
think ahead.
And if there's any way that
you can tighten up your house
and make it warmer, you
will spend less on energy.
If you want to co-generate,
that's available too.
If you have a
problem financially,
there are now leasing
programs available
so the equipment
can be leased you.
You don't have to buy it
if you can't afford it.
This is something that we're
working with municipalities
right now.
I was going to just make a
little comment about how people
can participate,
invest, or become
buyers of these
new power systems.
You know, how they can be part
of this declaration of energy
independence from the
Mideast and Mideast oil.
And we now have a program
together cold Enviro-Lease
where, let's say you're
a city, or your a school
or your a library
and you wish to begin
to use-- you want a
photovoltaic power system,
or even a whole new system
that we talked about.
OK, so what we do is we
basically go to your school,
we look at your power
bill and we say,
OK, it looks like you're
using $2,000 or $3,000
a month of power
to run your school
or to run the City Hall,
whatever it might be.
And so we say, we will cover
the roof of your school
with our photovoltaic
power equipment
and we will set up a
leasing arrangement with you
where you will lease this
equipment from us for the cost
that you're paying
now for electricity.
This leasing arrangement will
be in place for 10 years.
At the end of 10 years, we will
sell the system to you for $1.
How much you have to pay
to have this on your roof?
Zero, because we have investors
who believe in the children.
They believe that what
it's all about is the kids.
And they are willing to finance
and pay for the equipment
as a leasing program.
>>Sounds like that would
be hard to turn down.
And these types of
programs do exist.
>>They exist now.
>>So really it's a
process of education.
Most people have no idea
what technology is out there.
And, so really, it's up
to us as the consumer
to begin cruising the
net, educating ourselves
on which technologies
are already up available
and running, what the
future holds and then start
demanding, investing?
>>Exactly.
It's usually a fairly
large capital cost,
and so we're saying
there are other ways,
like leasing the equipment.
Now, you can lease
a car, you can
lease camera equipment,
anything you need.
That's another way to
participate and join
the energy revolution.
>>Thank you, Reinhold.
>>Thank you.
>>Check out Reinhold's website
for more detailed information
on all of the
incredible developments
in the world of
alternative energy sources.
Until next time,
thanks for watching.
[THEME MUSIC]